<!-- $ -->
<h1><strong>ArchLinux</strong></h1>
<p>last updata 08/21/2024</p>

<h2>Matters Needing Attention</h2>
<p>In code block <code>$</code> it means terminal, and there is no need to input it.</p>
<p>In code block <code>+</code> it means add, and there is no need to input it.</p>
<p>In code block <code>-</code> it means delete, and there is no need to input it.</p>
<p>In code block <code>*</code> it means change,  and there is no need to input it.</p>

<h2><strong>Tree</strong></h2>
<ul>
<li><p><a href=#Linux>Linux</a></p>
<li><p><a href=#Download_ISO>Download ISO</a></p>
<li><p><a href=#Prepare_an_installation_medium>Prepare An Installation Medium</a></p></li>
<li><p><a href=#Boot_the_live_environmet>Boot The Live Environmet</a></p></li>
<li><p><a href=#Installation>Installation</a></p></li>
<li><p><a href=#Configure_The_System>Configure The System </a></p></li>
<li><p><a href=#Localization>Localization</a></p></li>
<li><p><a href=#Network_Configuration>Network Configuration</a></p></li>
<li><p><a href=#Root_Password>Root Password</a></p></li>
<li><p><a href=#Boot_Loader>Boot Loader</a></p></li>
<li><p><a href=#UEFI>UEFI</a></p></li>
<li><p><a href=#Serve_Enable>Serve Enable </a></p></li>
<li><p><a href=#Exit_Chroot>Exit Chroot</a></p></li>
<li><p><a href=#Reboot>Reboot</a></p></li>
<li><p><a href=#Addition>Addition</a></p></li>
</ul>

<h2 id=Linux>Linux</h2>

<p><a href="https://archlinux.org"title="ArchLinux">Archlinux website</a></p>

<p>GNU/Linux is a free open OS kernel, Archlinux is one of the releases.</p>


<h2 id=Download_ISO>Download ISO</h2>
<p>From <a href="https://archlinux.org" title="ArchLinux">ArchLinux</a> download ISO.</p>

<p>ArchLinux is a Rolling Release.</p>

<p>Every Month, ArchLinux will distribute a month's release, you can download form <code>BitTorrent</code> , <code>Netboot</code> or <code><a href=#Mirrorsite>Mirrorsite</a></code></p>  

<p>Then checksums, make sure the file has not been tampered with.</p>  

<!-- Prepare An Installation Medium -->
<h2 id=Prepare_An_Installation_Medium>Prepare An Installation Medium</h2>

<p><strong><font color="Red">WARING:This will irrevocably delete all data on your USB flash drive, so make sure you do not have any important files on the flash drive before doing this.</font></strong></p>

<p>Most motherboards should already support UEFI. Inter also announced elimination of BIOS in 2020.</p>  

<p>Formatted USB flash with FAT32 ( less the 16GB is recommended, over 16GB can be partitoned. Of coure you can try NTFS, some motherboards support NTFS. )</p>

<p>Just mount ISO, and copy all files to the USB flash.</p>  

<!-- Boot The Live Environmet -->
<h2 id=Boot_The_Live_Environmet>Boot The Live Environmet</h2>

<p>GO in to motherboard UEFI, and select USB flash as the boot entry.</p>

<details>
<p><summary><strong>Verify the boot mode</strong></summary></p>
<p><code>$ cat /sys/firmware/efi/fw_platform_size</code></p>
<p>
If the command returns 64, then system is booted in UEFI mode and has a 64-bit x64 UEFI. If the command returns 32, then system is booted in UEFI mode and has a 32-bit IA32 UEFI; while this is supported, it will limit the boot loader choice to systemd-boot. If the file does not exist, the system may be booted in <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BIOS" title="BIOS">BIOS</a> (or <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compatibility_Support_Module" title="CSM">CSM</a>) mode. If the system did not boot in the mode you desired (UEFI vs BIOS), refer to your motherboard's manual.
</p>
<hr></hr>
</details>

<p></p>

<p><strong>Connect to the internet</strong></p>

<p>If you have Public Network, direct use of pppoe not recommended.</p>

<p>Use <code>$ ping archlinux.org</code> check network connectivity.</p>

<p><strong>System time update</strong></p>

<p><code>$ timedatectl</code></p>

<p><strong>Partition the disks</strong></p>

<p><strong><font color="Red">This Behavior Formats The Hard Drive!</font></strong></p>

<!-- view disk -->
<p>View disk</p>

<p><code>$ fdisk -l</code></p>

<p>Tip: Check that your NVMe drives and Advanced Format hard disk drives are using the optimal logical sector size before partitioning.</p>

<p>Partitions disks</p>

<p><code>$ cfdisk &lt;disk_id&gt;</code></p>

<p>If the disk is empty,it is recommended to select a <a href="https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/GPT" title="archlinux_wiki_GPT">GPT</a> partition.</p>

<ul>
<li><p>Partition:<code>/dev/efi_system_parttion</code></p>
<p>Type:<code>EFI system partition</code></p>
<p>size:<code>1G</code></p>
</li>

<li>
<p>(optional)</p>
<p>Partition:<code>/dev/swap_parttion</code></p>
<p>Type:<code><a href=#Swap>Linux swap</a></code></p>
<p>size:<code>?G</code></p>
</li>

<li>
<p>Partition:<code>/dev/root_parttion</code></p>
<p>Type:<code>Linux x86-64 root</code></p>
<p>size:<code>Remainder of the device</code></p>
</li>
</ul>

<p>By the time,executive command <code>fdisk -l</code></p>

<p>In that case of an NVME disk, and formated SWAP, it should look like:</P>

<ul>
<li><p>/dev/nvme0n1p1</li></p>
<li><p>/dev/nvme0n1p2</li></p>
<li><p>/dev/nvme0n1p3</li></p>
</ul>

<hr></hr>

<p><strong><p>Format the parttions</strong></p>

<p>Such as, on<code>/dev/root_parttition</code> to creat Ext4 files system, run:</p>

<p><code>$ mkfs.ext4 /dev/root_parttition</code></p>

<p>If you careted a partiton for swap, run:</p>

<p><code>$ mkswap /dev/swap_partition</code></p>

<p>If you created an EFI system partition, format it to FAT32 using mkfs.fat.</p>

<p><font color="Red">Warning: Only format the EFI system partition if you created it during the partitioning step. If there already was an EFI system partition on disk beforehand, reformatting it can destroy the boot loaders of other installed operating systems.</font></p>

<p><code>$ mkfs.fat -F 32 /dev/efi_system_partition</code></p>


<p><strong>Mount the file systems</strong></p>

<p>Mount the root volume to <code>/mnt</code>.</p>
For example, if the root volume is <code>/dev/root_parttition</code>.</p>

<p><code>$ mount /dev/root_parttition /mnt</code></p>

<p>Creat any remaining mountpoints, and mount the volumes in their corresponding hierarchical order.</p>

<p>For UEFI systems, mount the EFI system partition:</p>

<p><code>$ mount --mkdir /dev/efi_system_partition /mnt/efi</code></p>

<p>If you created a swap volume, enable it with swapon:</p>

<p><code>$ swapon /dev/swap_parttion</code></p>

<h2 id=Installation><strong>Installation</strong></h2>

<p><strong>Select the mirrors</strong></p>

<p><code>$ vim /etc/pacman.d/mirrorlist</code></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change(optional other mirrors)</p>
<p><code>+ Server = https://mirrors.tuna.tsinghua.edu.cn/archlinux/$repo/os/$arch</code></p>
</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Install essential packages</strong></p>

<!--
<p><code>$ pacstrap -K /mnt base linux-zen linux-firmware base-devel linux-zen-headers networkmanager vim git grub efibootmgr intel-ucode man-db man-pages nvidia-dkms nvidia-settings nvidia-utils btop htop alsa-utils p7zip hyprland wayland ttf-mononoki-nerd mpv firewalld light texinfo hyprpaper waybar iptables-nft alacritty</code></p>
-->

<p><code>$ pacstrap -K /mnt base base-devel efibootmgr git grub linux-firmware linux-zen linux-zen-headers man-db man-pages networkmanager pacman-contrib texinfo vim</code></p>

<p><strong>About pacman using color output, see <a href=#Pacman_Custom>Pacman Custom</a></strong></p>

<details>
<p><summary><strong>More install info</strong></summary></p>
<p>pakges info</p>
<pre lang="text"><code>
base -- Minimal package set to define a basic Arch Linux installation
<!-- $ -->
base-devel -- Basic tools to build Arch Linux packages
<!-- $ -->
efibootmgr -- Linux user-space application to modify the EFI Boot Manager
<!-- $ -->
git -- The fast distributed version control system
<!-- $ -->
grub -- GNU GRand Unified Bootloader
<!-- $ -->
linux-firmware -- Firmware files for Linux
<!-- $ -->
linux-zen -- The Linux ZEN kernel and modules
<!-- $ -->
linux-zen-headers -- Headers and scripts for building modules for the Linux ZEN kernel
<!-- $ -->
man-db -- A utility for reading man pages
<!-- $ -->
man-pages -- Linux man pages
<!-- $ -->
networkmanager -- Network connection manager and user applications
<!-- $ -->
pacman-contrib -- Contributed scripts and tools for pacman systems
<!-- $ -->
texinfo -- GNU documentation system for on-line information and printed output
<!-- $ -->
vim -- Vi Improved, a highly configurable, improved version of the vi text editor

</code></pre>
<hr></hr>

<p></p>

<p><strong>Cuntom install</strong></p>

<p><code>$ pacstrap -K /mnt alacritty alsa-utils aria2 base base-devel bat btop easyeffects efibootmgr firewalld git grub hyprland hyprpaper htop iftop intel-ucode iotop iptables-nft linux-firmware linux-zen linux-zen-headers mako man-db mpv man-pages networkmanager p7zip pacman-contrib pipewire pipewire-alsa pipewire-pulse pwgen termshark texinfo trash-cli tree ttf-mononoki-nerd vim waybar wayland wireshark-cil wireshark-qt wl-clipboard wofi</code></p>

<pre lang="text"><code>
alacritty -- A cross-platform, OpenGL terminal emulator
<!-- $ -->
alsa-utils -- Advanced Linux Sound Architecture
<!-- $ -->
aria2 -- Download utility that supports HTTP(S), FTP, BitTorrent, and Metalink
<!-- $ -->
base -- Minimal package set to define a basic Arch Linux installation
<!-- $ -->
base-devel -- Basic tools to build Arch Linux packages
<!-- $ -->
bat -- Cat clone with syntax highlighting and git integration
<!-- $ -->
btop -- A monitoring system resource run on the terminal
<!-- $ -->
easyeffects -- Audio Effects for Pipewire applications 
<!-- $ -->
efibootmgr -- Linux user-space application to modify the EFI Boot Manager
<!-- $ -->
firewalld -- Firewall daemon with D-Bus interface
<!-- $ -->
git -- The fast distributed version control system
<!-- $ -->
grub -- GNU GRand Unified Bootloader
<!-- $ -->
hyprland -- A highly customizable dynamic tiling Wayland compositor
<!-- $ -->
hyprpaper -- A blazing fast wayland wallpaper utility with IPC controls
<!-- $ -->
htop -- Interactive process viewer
<!-- $ -->
iftop -- Display bandwidth usage on an interface
<!-- $ -->
intel-ucode -- Microcode update files for Intel CPUs
<!-- $ -->
iotop -- View I/O usage of processes
<!-- $ -->
iptables-nft -- Linux kernel packet control tool (using nft interface)
<!-- $ -->
linux-firmware -- Firmware files for Linux
<!-- $ -->
linux-zen -- The Linux ZEN kernel and modules
<!-- $ -->
linux-zen-headers -- Headers and scripts for building modules for the Linux ZEN kernel
<!-- $ -->
mako -- Lightweight notification daemon for Wayland
<!-- $ -->
man-db -- A utility for reading man pages
<!-- $ -->
mpv -- A free, open source, and cross-platform media player
<!-- $ -->
man-pages -- Linux man pages
<!-- $ -->
networkmanager -- Network connection manager and user applications
<!-- $ -->
newsflash -- Desktop application designed to complement an already existing web-based RSS reader account
<!-- $ -->
p7zip -- Command-line file archiver with high compression ratio
<!-- $ -->
pipewire -- Low-latency audio/video router and processor
<!-- $ -->
pipewire-alsa -- Low-latency audio/video router and processor - ALSA configuration
<!-- $ -->
pipewire-pulse -- Low-latency audio/video router and processor - PulseAudio replacement
<!-- $ -->
pwgen -- generate pronounceable passwords
<!-- $ -->
termshark -- Terminal UI for tshark, inspired by Wireshark
<!-- $ -->
texinfo -- GNU documentation system for on-line information and printed output
<!-- $ -->
trash-cli -- Command line trashcan (recycle bin) interface
<!-- $ -->
tree -- A directory listing program displaying a depth indented list of files
<!-- $ -->
ttf-mononoki-nerd -- Font, patched font Mononoki from nerd fonts library
<!-- $ -->
udisks2 -- Daemon, tools and libraries to access and manipulate disks, storage devices and technologies
<!-- $ -->
vim -- Vi Improved, a highly configurable, improved version of the vi text editor
<!-- $ -->
waybar -- Highly customizable Wayland bar for Sway and Wlroots based compositors
<!-- $ -->
wayland -- A computer display server protocol
<!-- $ -->
wireplumber -- Session / policy manager implementation for PipeWire
<!-- $ -->
wireshark-cli -- Network traffic and protocol analyzer/sniffer - CLI tools and data files
<!-- $ -->
wireshark-qt -- Network traffic and protocol analyzer/sniffer - Qt GUI
<!-- $ -->
wl-clipboard -- Command-line copy/paste utilities for Wayland
<!-- $ -->
wofi -- launcher for wlroots-based wayland compositors
<!-- $ -->


</code></pre>
<hr></hr>
</details>

<!-- Configure The System -->
<h2 id=Configure_The_System>Configure The System</h2>

<p><strong>Fstab</strong></p>

<p>Generate an fstab file (use -U or -L to define by UUID or labels, respectively):</p>

<p><code>$ genfstab -U /mnt >> /mnt/etc/fstab</code></p>

<p>Check the resulting /mnt/etc/fstab file, and edit it in case of errors.</p>

<p><strong>Chroot</strong></p>

<p>Change root into the new system:</p>

<p><code>$ arch-chroot /mnt</code></p>

<p><strong>Time</strong></p>

<p>Set the time zone:</p>

<p><code>$ ln -sf /usr/share/zoneinfo/Asia/Shanghai /etc/localtime</code></p>

<p>Run hwclock to generate /etc/adjtime:</p>

<p><code>$ hwclock --systohc</code></p>

<h2 id=Localization>Localization</h2>

<p> Edit /etc/locale.gen and uncomment en_US.UTF-8 UTF-8 and other needed UTF-8 locales. Generate the locales by running:</p>

<p><code>$ vim /etc/locale.gen</code></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p><code>* #en_US.UTF8 UTF-8</code>&emsp;-->&emsp;<code>en_US.UTF8 UTF-8 </code></p>
</li>
</ul>

<p><code>$ locale-gen</code></p>

<p>Create the locale.conf file, and set the LANG variable accordingly:</p>

<p><code>$ vim /etc/locale.conf</code><font color="Red">&emsp;(new)&emsp;</font></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p><code>+ LANG=en_US.UTF-8</code></p>
</li>
</ul>

<!-- Network Configuration -->
<h2 id=Network_Configuration>Network Configuration</h2>

<p>Create the hostname file:</p>

<p><code>$ vim /etc/hostname</code></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p><code>+ <font color="Red">&lt;self-selection&gt;</font></code></p>
</li>
</ul>

<!-- Root Password -->
<h2 id=Root_Password>Root Password</h2>

<p>Set the root password: </p>

<p><code>$ passwd</code></p>

<!-- Boot Loader -->
<h2 id=Boot_Loader>Boot Loader</h2>

<p><code>$ vim /etc/default/grub</code></p>

<ul>
<li><p>file change</p>
<p><code>* GRUB_TIMEOUT = 5</code>&emsp;-->&emsp;<code> GRUB_TIMEOUT = 30</code></li></p>
</ul>

<!-- UEFI -->
<h2 id=UEFI>UEFI</h2>

<p><code>$ grub-install --tagget=x86_64-efi --efi-directory=/efi --bootloader-id=GRUB</code></p>

<p><code>$ grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg</code></p>

<!-- Serve Enable -->
<h2 id=Serve_Enable>Serve Enable</h2>

<p><code>$ systemctl enable NetworkManager</code></p>

<!-- Exit Chroot -->
<h2 id=Exit_Chroot>Exit Chroot</h2>

<p><code>$ exit</code></p>

<!-- Reboot -->
<h2 id=Reboot>Reboot</h2>

<p><code>$ reboot</code></p>


<!-- Addition -->
<h2 id =Addition>Addition</h2>

<!-- Addition Tree -->
<p><strong>Tree</strong></p>

<ul>
<li><p><a href=#Bash_Custom_Format>Bash Custom Format</a></p>
<li><p><a href=#Makepkg_Debug>Makepkg</a></p>
<li><p><a href=#Mirrorsite>Mirrorsite</a></p>
<li><p><a href=#32-bit>Multilib</a></p>
<li><p><a href=#Pacman_Custom>Pacman Custom</a></p>
<li><p><a href=#Swap>Swap</a></p>
<li><p><a href=#AfterInstall>AfterInstall</a></p>
<li><p><a href=#Display_Drivers>Display Drivers</a></p>
<li><p><a href=#Display_Server>Display Server</a></p>
<li><p><a href=#Sound>Sound</a></p>
<li><p><a href=#Aria2>Aria2</a></p>
<li><p><a href=#Fontconfig>Fontconfig</a></p>
</ul>

<!-- Bash Custom Format -->
<h2 id =Bash_Custom_Format>Bash Custom Format</h2>
<p>Add time in bash.</p>
<p><code>$ vim /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.bashrc</code></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p><code>+ PS1='[\A \u@\h \W]\$ '</code></p>
</li>
</ul>



<!-- Makepkg Debug-->
<h2 id =Makepkg_Debug>Makepkg</h2>
<p>Disable making debug package.</p>
<p>Link -- <a href="https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?pid=2150180#p2150180">ArchLinux BBS.</a></p>
<p><code>$ vim /etc/makepkg.conf</code></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p><code>* OPTIONS=(strip docs !libtool !staticlibs emptydirs zipman purge debug lto)</code>&emsp;-->&emsp;<code>OPTIONS=(strip docs !libtool !staticlibs emptydirs zipman purge !debug lto)</code></p>
</li>
</ul>


<!-- Mirrorsite -->
<h2 id =Mirrorsite>Mirrorsite</h2>
<p>For Chinese user, I recommend <a href="https://tuna.tsinghua.edu.cn">tuna.Tsinghua mirrorsite.</a></p>

<!-- Multilib -->
<h2 id=32-bit>Multilib</h2>

<p>Enable multilib</p>
<p><code>$ vim /etc/pacman.conf</code></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p><code>* #[mulitilib]</code>&emsp;-->&emsp;<code>[mulitilib]</code></p>
<p><code>* #Include = /etc/pacman.d/mirrorlist</code>&emsp;-->&emsp;<code>Include = /etc/pacman.d/mirrorlist</code></p>
</li>
</ul>

<!-- Pacman Custom -->
<h2 id=Pacman_Custom>Pacman Custom</h2>
<p>Pacman output with color, and comparing versions before updating.</p>
<p><code>$ vim /etc/pacman.conf</code></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p><code>* #color</code>&emsp;-->&emsp;<code>color</code></p>
<p><code>* #VerbosePkgLists</code>&emsp;-->&emsp;<code>VerbosePkgLists</code></p>
</li>
</ul>

<!-- Swap-->
<h2 id=Swap>Swap</h2>

<ul>
<li>
<p>4GB of RAM requires a minimum of 2GB of swap space</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>4GB to 16GB RAM requires a minimum of 4GB of swap space</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>16GB to 64GB of RAM requires a minimum of 8GB of swap space</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>64GB to 256GB of RAM requires a minimum of 16GB of swap space</p></p>
</li>
</ul>

<!--After Install-->
<h2 id=AfterInstall>After Install</h2>

<p><strong>You must to <a href=#Installation>Installation --> more install info --> cuntom install</a></strong></p>

<!-- Add new user/group -->
<h2>Add new user/group</h2>

<p><code>$ useradd -m <font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font></code></p>

<p>It will use default settings, created a group <code><font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font></code> and created a user <code><font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font></code> in this group.</p>

<p>Then creat userpassword</p>

<p><code>$ passwd <font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font></code></p>

<hr></hr>

<p><strong>Authority Escalation</strong></p>

<p>Edit as <code>root</code></p>

<p><code>/etc/sudoers</code></p>

<!--AUR-->
<h2>AUR</h2>
<p>AUR is a community software warehouse.</p>

<p><strong>About<font color="Red">"*-debug" packages</font></strong> see <a href=#Makepkg_Debug>makepkg</a></p>

<p>Install paru</p>

<p><code>$ git clone https://aur.archlinux.org/paru.git</code></p>
<p><code>$ cd paru</code></p>
<p><code>$ makepkg -si</code></p>

<p><strong>Install more app</strong></p>
<p><code>$ paru blender-lts-bin cava vscodium joshuto microsoft-edge-stable-bin ttf-lxgw-wenkai v2raya</code></p>

<pre lang="text"><code>
blender-lts-bin --Blender is the free and open source 3D creation suite --(https://www.blender.org/)
<!-- $ -->
cava -- Console-based Audio Visualizer for Alsa --(https://github.com/karlstav/cava)
<!-- $ -->
vscodium -- Free/Libre Open Source Software Binaries of VSCode (git build from latest release). --(https://github.com/VSCodium/vscodium)
<!-- $ -->
joshuto -- ranger-like terminal file manager written in Rust --(https://github.com/kamiyaa/joshuto)
<!-- $ -->
microsoft-edge-stable-bin -- A browser that combines a minimal design with sophisticated technology to make the web faster, safer, and easier --(https://www.microsoftedgeinsider.com/en-us/download)
<!-- $ -->
ttf-lxgw-wenkai -- An open-source Chinese font derived from Fontworks' Klee One. --(https://github.com/lxgw/LxgwWenKai)
<!-- $ -->
v2raya -- A web GUI client of Project V which supports VMess, VLESS, SS, SSR, Trojan, Tuic and Juicity protocols --(https://github.com/v2rayA/v2rayA)

</code></pre>

<!-- Display drivers -->
<h2  id=Display_Drivers>Display Drivers</h2>

<p><strong>Nvidia</strong></p>
<p><code>$ sudo pacman -S nvidia-dkms nvidia-settings nvidia-utils &lt;lib32-nvidia-utils<sup><small><a href=#32-bit>32-bit</a></small></sup>&gt;</code></p>

<p><strong>Intel</strong></p>
<p><code>$ sudo pacman -S mesa &lt;lib32-mesa<sup><small><a href=#32-bit>32-bit</a></small></sup>&gt;</code></p>

<!--Display Server-->
<h2 id=Display_Server>Display Server</h2>

<!-- Hyprland -->
<p><strong>Hyprland</strong></p>

<p>Hayland is a Tiling Compositors.</p>

<p><code>$ vim /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf</code></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p><code>+ exec-once = newsflash</code></p>
<p><code>+ exec-once = waybar -c /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/waybar/waybar.config -s /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/waybar/waybar.css</code></p>
<p><code>+ exec-once = wl-paste -t text --watch clipman store --no-persist</code></p>
<p><code>+ env = XDG_SESSION_TYPE,wayland</code></p>
<p><code>* $terminal = kitty</code>&emsp;-->&emsp;<code>$terminal = alacritty</code></p>
<p><code>* $fileManager = dolphin</code>&emsp;-->&emsp;<code>$fileManager = alacritty -e joshuto</code></p>
<p><code>* $menu = wofi --show drun</code>&emsp;-->&emsp;<code>$menu = wofi --show run --style /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/wofi/wofi.css --conf /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/wofi/wofi.config --line 8</code></p>
<p><code>+ bind = $mainMod, F, fullscreen, 2</code></p>
</li>
</ul>

<details>
<p><summary><strong>Nvidia need more options:</strong></summary></p>

<p><code>$ vim /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf</code></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p><code>+ env = LIBVA_DRIVER_NAME,nvidia</code></p>
<p><code>+ env = GBM_BACKEND,nvidia-drm</code></p>
<p><code>+ env = __GLX_VENDOR_LIBRARY_NAME,nvidia</code></p>
<p><code>+ env = WLR_NO_HARDWARE_CURSORS,1</code></p>
</li>
</ul>

<p></p>

<p><code>$ vim /etc/default/grub</code></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p><code>* GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="loglive=3 quite"</code>&emsp;-->&emsp;<code>GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="loglive=3 quite nvidia_drm.modeset=1"</code></p>
</li>
</ul>

<p><code>$ grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg</code></p>

<p></p>

<p><code>$ vim /etc/mkinitcpio.conf</code></p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p><code>* MODULES()</code>&emsp;-->&emsp;<code>MODULES(nvidia nvidia_modeset nvidia_uvm nvidia_drm)</code></p>
</li>
</ul>

<p><code>$ mkinitcpio --config /etc/mkinitcpio.conf --generate /boot/initramf-custom.img</code></p>

<p></p>

<p><code>$ vim /etc/modprobe.d/nvidia.conf </code><font color="Red">&emsp;(new)&emsp;</font></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p><code>+ options nvidia-drm modeset=1</code></p>
</li>
</ul>

</details>

<hr></hr>

<!-- Alacrittyr -->
<p><strong>Alacritty</strong></p>

<p><code>$ vim /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/alacritty/alacritty.toml</code><font color="Red">&emsp;(new)&emsp;</font></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p>+<pre lang="text"><code>
[font.bold]
family = "Mononoki Nerd Font Mono"
style = "Bold"
<!-- $ -->
[font.italic]
family = "Mononoki Nerd Font Mono"
style = "Italic"
<!-- $ -->
[font.normal]
family = "Mononoki Nerd Font Mono"
style = "Regular"
<!-- $ -->
[window]
opacity = 0.65

</pre></code></p>
</li>
</ul>

<p></p>

<!-- Hyprpaper -->
<p><strong>Hyprpaper</strong></p>

<p>Run <code>$ hyprctl monitors</code> to output monitor's name.</p>

<p>Then edit hyprpaper's config <code>/home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/hypr/hyprpaper.conf</code></p>

<p></p>

<!-- Mako -->
<p><strong>Mako</strong></p>

<p><code>$ vim /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/mako/config</code>&emsp;<font color="Red">(new)</font>&emsp;</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p>+<pre lang="text"><code>
sort=-time
layer=overlay
background-color=#2b303bd8
width=450
height=150
border-size=3
border-color=#99c0d0
border-radius=12
icons=0
max-icon-size=64
default-timeout=5000
ignore-timeout=0
font="Monoki Nerd Font Mono" 14
margin=12
padding=12,20
<!-- $ -->
[urgency=low]
border-color=#cccccc
<!-- $ -->
[urgency=normal]
border-color=#99c0d0
<!-- $ -->
[urgency=critical]
border-color=#bf616a
default-timeout=0

</code></pre></p>
</li>
</ul>

<p><code>$ makoctl reload</code></p>

<details>
<p><summary><strong>about <code>mako</code> file's lincenses</strong></summary></p>

<!-- lincense -->
<p><pre lang="text"><code>
https://github.com/Isoheptane/dotfiles
<!-- $ -->
Unlicense license
<!-- $ -->
This is free and unencumbered software released into the public domain.
<!-- $ -->
Anyone is free to copy, modify, publish, use, compile, sell, or
distribute this software, either in source code form or as a compiled
binary, for any purpose, commercial or non-commercial, and by any
means.
<!-- $ -->
In jurisdictions that recognize copyright laws, the author or authors
of this software dedicate any and all copyright interest in the
software to the public domain. We make this dedication for the benefit
of the public at large and to the detriment of our heirs and
successors. We intend this dedication to be an overt act of
relinquishment in perpetuity of all present and future rights to this
software under copyright law.
<!-- $ -->
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
<!-- $ -->
For more information, please refer to &lt;https://unlicense.org&gt;
</code></pre></p>
<hr></hr>
</details>

<p></p>

<!-- Mpv -->
<p><strong>Mpv</strong></p>

<p><code>$ vim /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/mpv/mpv.conf</code>&emsp;<font color="Red">(new)</font>&emsp;</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p>+<pre lang="text"><code>
save-position-on-quit
watch-later-directory=/home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/mpv/cache

</code></pre></p>
</li>
</ul>

<p><code>$ mkdir /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/mpv/cache</code></p>

<p></p>

<!-- waybar -->
<p><strong>Waybar</strong></p>

<p><code>$ vim /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/waybar/waybar.config </code><font color="Red">&emsp;(new)&emsp;</font></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p>+<pre lang="text"><code>
{
    "layer": "top",
<!-- $ -->
    "height": 30,
<!-- $ -->
    "modules-left": ["hyprland/workspaces"],
<!-- $ -->
    "modules-center": ["hyprland/window"],
<!-- $ -->
    "modules-right": ["network", "pulseaudio", "clock", "privacy"],
<!-- $ -->  
    "hyprland/window": {
        "max-length": 50,
    },
<!-- $ -->
    "clock": {
        "tooltip-format": "&lt;big&gt;{:%Y %B}&lt;/big&gt;\n&lt;tt&gt;&lt;small&gt;{calendar}&lt;/small&gt;&lt;/tt&gt;",
        "format": "{:%H:%M  %a, %b %d. }"
    }
<!-- $ -->    
    "privacy": {
	"icon-spacing": 5,
	"icon-size": 18,
	"transition-duration": 250,
	"modules": [
		{
			"type": "screenshare",
			"tooltip": true,
			"tooltip-icon-size": 24
		},
		{
			"type": "audio-out",
			"tooltip": true,
			"tooltip-icon-size": 24
		},
		{
			"type": "audio-in",
			"tooltip": true,
			"tooltip-icon-size": 24
		}
	]
	},
<!-- $ -->  
    "network": {
    "format": "{ifname}",
    "format-ethernet": "CONNECT  {bandwidthUpBytes}  {bandwidthDownBytes}",
    "format-disconnected": "DISCONNECT", //An empty format will hide the module.
    "max-length": 50,	
	"tooltip": false,
	"interval": 1,
	},
<!-- $ -->  
	"pulseaudio": {
        "scroll-step": 1, // %, can be a float
		"tooltip": true,
		"tooltip-format": "{desc}",
		"max-volume": 120,
        "format": "{icon} {volume}% / {format_source}",
        "format-bluetooth": "BLUETOOTH {icon} {volume}% / {format_source}",
        "format-bluetooth-muted": "BLUETOOTH {icon} MUTE / {format_source}",
        "format-muted": "OUTPUT MUTE / {format_source}",
        "format-source": "INPUT {volume}%",
        "format-source-muted": "INPUT MUTE",
        "format-icons": {
            "headphone": "",
            "headset": "",
            "default": ["LOW", "MEDIUM", "HIGH"]
        },
        "on-click": "easyeffects",
		"on-click-middle": "amixer sset Master mute",
		"on-click-right": "amixer sset Master unmute",
        "ignored-sinks": ["Easy Effects Sink"], // when not use this line, the volume adjustment fuction will disabled after "Easy Effects" enables all players.
    },
}
<!-- $ -->   
</pre></code></p>
</li>
</ul>

<p><code>$ vim /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/waybar/waybar.css </code><font color="Red">&emsp;(new)&emsp;</font></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p>+<pre lang="text"><code>
* {
    border: none;
    border-radius: 0;
    font-family: Mononoki Nerd Font Mono;
    font-size: 15px;
    min-height: 0;
}
<!-- $ -->
#window {
    border-bottom: 3px solid transparent;
}
<!-- $ -->
window#waybar {
    background: rgba(43, 48, 59, 0.5);
    border-bottom: 3px solid rgba(100, 114, 125, 0.5);
    color: white;
}
<!-- $ -->
#workspaces button {
    padding: 0px 5px;
    background: transparent;
    color: white;
    border-bottom: 3px solid transparent;
}
<!-- $ -->
#clock {
    color: #ffffff;
    border-bottom: 3px solid transparent;
}
<!-- $ -->
#privacy{
    padding: 0px 5px;
    border-bottom: 3px solid transparent;
}
<!-- $ -->
#network{
    padding: 0px 0px;
    border-bottom: 3px solid transparent;
}
<!-- $ -->
#pulseaudio{
    padding: 0px 20px;
    border-bottom: 3px solid transparent;
}
<!-- $ -->
</pre></code></p>
</li>
</ul>

<p></p>

<!-- Wireshark -->
<p><strong>Wireshark</strong></p>

<p>Do not run Wireshark as root; it is insecure. Wireshark has implemented privilege separation, which means that the Wireshark GUI (or the tshark CLI) can run as a normal user while the dumpcap capture utility runs as root.</p>

<p>The wireshark-cli install script sets packet capturing capabilities on the /usr/bin/dumpcap executable.</p>

<p>/usr/bin/dumpcap can only be executed by root and members of the wireshark group, so to use Wireshark as a normal user, you have to add your user to the wireshark user group.</p>


<p><code>$ sudo groupadd wireshark</code></p>
<p><code>$ sudo usermod -a -G wireshark $USER</code></p>
<p><code>$ sudo chgrp wireshark /usr/bin/dumpcap</code></p>
<p><code>$ sudo setcap cap_net_raw,cap_net_admin=eip /usr/bin/dumpcap</code></p>

<p></p>

<!-- Wofi -->
<p><strong>Wofi</strong></p>

<p>More info to <a href="https://cloudninja.pw/docs/wofi.html#styling" title="wofi">wofi-configuration</a> or <a href="https://man.archlinux.org/man/wofi.en" title="archlinux_wiki_wofi">archwiki-wofi.</a>

<p><code>$ vim /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/wofi/wofi.config</code></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p><code>+ width=550</code></p>
</li>
</ul>

<p></p>

<p><code>$ vim /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/wofi/wofi.css</code></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p>+<pre lang="text"><code> 
window{
	font: "Mononoki Nerd Font Mono";
	background: rgba(43, 48, 59, 0.85);
	color: white;
	border-radius: 10 10 10 10;
	padding: 10px;
}
<!-- $ -->
#outer-box {
	padding: 0 10 0 10;
}
<!-- $ -->
#input {
	margin: 10 0 5 0;
	border: 6px;
	border-radius: 10 10 0 0;
}
<!-- $ -->
#entry:selected{
	background-color: white;
}
<!-- $ -->
#text:selected{
	color: black;
}

</code></pre></p>
</li>
</ul>

<p></p>

<hr></hr>

<!-- Run hyprland -->
<p><strong>Run hyprland</strong></p>

<p><code>$ Hyprland</code></p>


<!-- Sound -->
<h2 id=Sound>Sound</h2>

<!-- Sound configuration -->
<p><strong>Sound configuration</strong></p>

<p>Run GUI sound manager.</p>

<p><code>$ alsamixer</code></p>

<p>set default card</p>

<p><code>$ vim /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.asoundrc</code>&emsp;<font color="Red">(new)</font>&emsp;</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p><code>+ defaults.pcm.card <font color="Red">&lt;cuntom card name&gt;</font></code></p>
<p><code>+ defaults.ctl.card <font color="Red">&lt;cuntom card name&gt;</font></code></p>
</li>
</ul>

<p>set defaults kernel config card</p>

<p>edit as root</p>

<p>use<code> $ cat /proc/asound/modules </code>to know card name</p>

<p><code>$ vim /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf</code></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p><code>+ options <font color="Red">&lt;cuntom card name&gt;</font> index=<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom number&gt;</font></code></p>
<p><code>+ options <font color="Red">&lt;cuntom card name&gt;</font> index=<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom number&gt;</font></code></p>
<p><code>or more settings</code></p>
</li>
</ul>

<p>then reboot</p>

<p></p>

<!-- Cava -->
<p><strong id=Cava>Cava</strong></p>

<p><code>$ vim /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/cava/config</code></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p><code>* ; autosens = 1</code>&emsp;-->&emsp;<code>autosens = 1</code></p>
<p><code>* ; sensitivity = 100</code>&emsp;-->&emsp;<code>sensitivity = 65</code></p>
<p><code>* ; method = pipewire</code>&emsp;-->&emsp;<code>method = pipewire</code></p>
<p><code>* ; source = auto</code>&emsp;-->&emsp;<code>source = auto</code></p>
</li>
</ul>

<p></p>

<!-- Aria2 -->
<h2 id=Aria2>Aria2</h2>


<details>
<p><summary><strong>about <code>aria2.conf</code> and <code>tracker.sh</code> file's lincenses</strong></summary></p>

<!-- lincense -->
<p><pre lang="text"><code>
MIT License
<!-- $ -->
Copyright (c) 2018-2021 P3TERX &lt;https://p3terx.com&gt;
<!-- $ -->
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
<!-- $ -->
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.
<!-- $ -->
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
</code></pre></p>
<hr></hr>
</details>

<!-- aria2.conf -->
<details>
<p><summary><strong>aria2.conf</strong></summary></p>
<p><code>$ vim /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/aria2/aria2.conf </code><font color="Red">&emsp;(new)&emsp;</font></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p>+<pre lang="text"><code>
&#35;
&#35; https://github.com/P3TERX/aria2.conf
&#35; File name：aria2.conf
&#35; Description: Awesome Aria2 configuration file
&#35; Version: 2021.09.15
&#35;
&#35; Copyright (c) 2018-2021 P3TERX <https://p3terx.com>
&#35;
&#35; This is free software, licensed under the MIT License.
&#35; See /LICENSE for more information.
&#35;
<!-- $ -->
&#35;&#35; 文件保存设置 &#35;&#35;
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 下载目录。可使用绝对路径或相对路径, 默认: 当前启动位置
dir=/home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/Downloads
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 磁盘缓存, 0 为禁用缓存，默认:16M
&#35; 磁盘缓存的作用是把下载的数据块临时存储在内存中，然后集中写入硬盘，以减少磁盘 I/O ，提升读写性能，延长硬盘寿命。
&#35; 建议在有足够的内存空闲情况下适当增加，但不要超过剩余可用内存空间大小。
&#35; 此项值仅决定上限，实际对内存的占用取决于网速(带宽)和设备性能等其它因素。
disk-cache=64M
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 文件预分配方式, 可选：none, prealloc, trunc, falloc, 默认:prealloc
&#35; 预分配对于机械硬盘可有效降低磁盘碎片、提升磁盘读写性能、延长磁盘寿命。
&#35; 机械硬盘使用 ext4（具有扩展支持），btrfs，xfs 或 NTFS（仅 MinGW 编译版本）等文件系统建议设置为 falloc
&#35; 若无法下载，提示 fallocate failed.cause：Operation not supported 则说明不支持，请设置为 none
&#35; prealloc 分配速度慢, trunc 无实际作用，不推荐使用。
&#35; 固态硬盘不需要预分配，只建议设置为 none ，否则可能会导致双倍文件大小的数据写入，从而影响寿命。
file-allocation=none
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 文件预分配大小限制。小于此选项值大小的文件不预分配空间，单位 K 或 M，默认：5M
no-file-allocation-limit=64M
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 断点续传
continue=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 始终尝试断点续传，无法断点续传则终止下载，默认：true
always-resume=false
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 不支持断点续传的 URI 数值，当 always-resume=false 时生效。
&#35; 达到这个数值从将头开始下载，值为 0 时所有 URI 不支持断点续传时才从头开始下载。
max-resume-failure-tries=0
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 获取服务器文件时间，默认:false
remote-time=true

<!-- $ -->
&#35;&#35; 进度保存设置 &#35;&#35;
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 从会话文件中读取下载任务
input-file=/home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/aria2/aria2.session
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 会话文件保存路径
&#35; Aria2 退出时或指定的时间间隔会保存'错误/未完成'的下载任务到会话文件
save-session=/home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/aria2/aria2.session
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 任务状态改变后保存会话的间隔时间（秒）, 0 为仅在进程正常退出时保存, 默认:0
&#35; 为了及时保存任务状态、防止任务丢失，此项值只建议设置为 1
save-session-interval=1
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 自动保存任务进度到控制文件(*.aria2)的间隔时间（秒），0 为仅在进程正常退出时保存，默认：60
&#35; 此项值也会间接影响从内存中把缓存的数据写入磁盘的频率
&#35; 想降低磁盘 IOPS (每秒读写次数)则提高间隔时间
&#35; 想在意外非正常退出时尽量保存更多的下载进度则降低间隔时间
&#35; 非正常退出：进程崩溃、系统崩溃、SIGKILL 信号、设备断电等
auto-save-interval=20
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 强制保存，即使任务已完成也保存信息到会话文件, 默认:false
&#35; 开启后会在任务完成后保留 .aria2 文件，文件被移除且任务存在的情况下重启后会重新下载。
&#35; 关闭后已完成的任务列表会在重启后清空。
force-save=ture
<!-- $ -->

&#35;&#35; 下载连接设置 &#35;&#35;
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 文件未找到重试次数，默认:0 (禁用)
&#35; 重试时同时会记录重试次数，所以也需要设置 max-tries 这个选项
max-file-not-found=10
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 最大尝试次数，0 表示无限，默认:5
max-tries=0
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 重试等待时间（秒）, 默认:0 (禁用)
retry-wait=10
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 连接超时时间（秒）。默认：60
connect-timeout=10
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 超时时间（秒）。默认：60
timeout=10
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 最大同时下载任务数, 运行时可修改, 默认:5
max-concurrent-downloads=5
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 单服务器最大连接线程数, 任务添加时可指定, 默认:1
&#35; 最大值为 16 (增强版无限制), 且受限于单任务最大连接线程数(split)所设定的值。
max-connection-per-server=16
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 单任务最大连接线程数, 任务添加时可指定, 默认:5
split=64
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 文件最小分段大小, 添加时可指定, 取值范围 1M-1024M (增强版最小值为 1K), 默认:20M
&#35; 比如此项值为 10M, 当文件为 20MB 会分成两段并使用两个来源下载, 文件为 15MB 则只使用一个来源下载。
&#35; 理论上值越小使用下载分段就越多，所能获得的实际线程数就越大，下载速度就越快，但受限于所下载文件服务器的策略。
min-split-size=4M
<!-- $ -->
&#35; HTTP/FTP 下载分片大小，所有分割都必须是此项值的倍数，最小值为 1M (增强版为 1K)，默认：1M
piece-length=1M
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 允许分片大小变化。默认：false
&#35; false：当分片大小与控制文件中的不同时将会中止下载
&#35; true：丢失部分下载进度继续下载
allow-piece-length-change=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 最低下载速度限制。当下载速度低于或等于此选项的值时关闭连接（增强版本为重连），此选项与 BT 下载无关。单位 K 或 M ，默认：0 (无限制)
lowest-speed-limit=0
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 全局最大下载速度限制, 运行时可修改, 默认：0 (无限制)
max-overall-download-limit=0
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 单任务下载速度限制, 默认：0 (无限制)
max-download-limit=0
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 禁用 IPv6, 默认:false
disable-ipv6=false
<!-- $ -->
&#35; GZip 支持，默认:false
http-accept-gzip=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; URI 复用，默认: true
reuse-uri=false
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 禁用 netrc 支持，默认:false
no-netrc=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 允许覆盖，当相关控制文件(.aria2)不存在时从头开始重新下载。默认:false
allow-overwrite=false
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 文件自动重命名，此选项仅在 HTTP(S)/FTP 下载中有效。新文件名在名称之后扩展名之前加上一个点和一个数字（1..9999）。默认:true
auto-file-renaming=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 使用 UTF-8 处理 Content-Disposition ，默认:false
content-disposition-default-utf8=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 最低 TLS 版本，可选：TLSv1.1、TLSv1.2、TLSv1.3 默认:TLSv1.2
min-tls-version=TLSv1.3

<!-- $ -->
&#35;&#35; BT/PT 下载设置 &#35;&#35;
<!-- $ -->
&#35; BT 监听端口(TCP), 默认:6881-6999
&#35; 直通外网的设备，比如 VPS ，务必配置防火墙和安全组策略允许此端口入站
&#35; 内网环境的设备，比如 NAS ，除了防火墙设置，还需在路由器设置外网端口转发到此端口
listen-port=51413
<!-- $ -->
&#35; DHT 网络与 UDP tracker 监听端口(UDP), 默认:6881-6999
&#35; 因协议不同，可以与 BT 监听端口使用相同的端口，方便配置防火墙和端口转发策略。
dht-listen-port=51413
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 启用 IPv4 DHT 功能, PT 下载(私有种子)会自动禁用, 默认:true
enable-dht=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 启用 IPv6 DHT 功能, PT 下载(私有种子)会自动禁用，默认:false
&#35; 在没有 IPv6 支持的环境开启可能会导致 DHT 功能异常
enable-dht6=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 指定 BT 和 DHT 网络中的 IP 地址
&#35; 使用场景：在家庭宽带没有公网 IP 的情况下可以把 BT 和 DHT 监听端口转发至具有公网 IP 的服务器，在此填写服务器的 IP ，可以提升 BT 下载速率。
&#35;bt-external-ip=
<!-- $ -->
&#35; IPv4 DHT 文件路径，默认：$HOME/.aria2/dht.dat
dht-file-path=/home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/aria2/dht.dat
<!-- $ -->
&#35; IPv6 DHT 文件路径，默认：$HOME/.aria2/dht6.dat
dht-file-path6=/home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/aria2/dht6.dat
<!-- $ -->
&#35; IPv4 DHT 网络引导节点
dht-entry-point=dht.transmissionbt.com:6881
<!-- $ -->
&#35; IPv6 DHT 网络引导节点
dht-entry-point6=dht.transmissionbt.com:6881
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 本地节点发现, PT 下载(私有种子)会自动禁用 默认:false
bt-enable-lpd=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; Allow hook command invocation after hash check (see -V option) in BitTorrent download.
&#35; By default, when hash check succeeds, the command given by --on-bt-download-complete is executed. 
&#35; To disable this action, give to this option. 
bt-enable-hook-after-hash-check=false
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 指定用于本地节点发现的接口，可能的值：接口，IP地址
&#35; 如果未指定此选项，则选择默认接口。
&#35;bt-lpd-interface=
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 启用节点交换, PT 下载(私有种子)会自动禁用, 默认:true
enable-peer-exchange=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; BT 下载最大连接数（单任务），运行时可修改。0 为不限制，默认:55
&#35; 理想情况下连接数越多下载越快，但在实际情况是只有少部分连接到的做种者上传速度快，其余的上传慢或者不上传。
&#35; 如果不限制，当下载非常热门的种子或任务数非常多时可能会因连接数过多导致进程崩溃或网络阻塞。
&#35; 进程崩溃：如果设备 CPU 性能一般，连接数过多导致 CPU 占用过高，因资源不足 Aria2 进程会强制被终结。
&#35; 网络阻塞：在内网环境下，即使下载没有占满带宽也会导致其它设备无法正常上网。因远古低性能路由器的转发性能瓶颈导致。
bt-max-peers=128
<!-- $ -->
&#35;Download metadata only. The file(s) described in metadata will not be downloaded. This option has effect only when BitTorrent Magnet URI is used.
bt-metadata-only=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; BT 下载期望速度值（单任务），运行时可修改。单位 K 或 M 。默认:50K
&#35; BT 下载速度低于此选项值时会临时提高连接数来获得更快的下载速度，不过前提是有更多的做种者可供连接。
&#35; 实测临时提高连接数没有上限，但不会像不做限制一样无限增加，会根据算法进行合理的动态调节。
bt-request-peer-speed-limit=100M
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 全局最大上传速度限制, 运行时可修改, 默认:0 (无限制)
&#35; 设置过低可能影响 BT 下载速度
max-overall-upload-limit=2M
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 单任务上传速度限制, 默认:0 (无限制)
max-upload-limit=0
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 最小分享率。当种子的分享率达到此选项设置的值时停止做种, 0 为一直做种, 默认:1.0
&#35; 强烈建议您将此选项设置为大于等于 1.0
seed-ratio=1.0
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 最小做种时间（分钟）。设置为 0 时将在 BT 任务下载完成后停止做种。
seed-time=100
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 做种前检查文件哈希, 默认:true
bt-hash-check-seed=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 继续之前的BT任务时, 无需再次校验, 默认:false
bt-seed-unverified=false
<!-- $ -->
&#35; BT tracker 服务器连接超时时间（秒）。默认：60
&#35; 建立连接后，此选项无效，将使用 bt-tracker-timeout 选项的值
bt-tracker-connect-timeout=10
<!-- $ -->
&#35; BT tracker 服务器超时时间（秒）。默认：60
bt-tracker-timeout=10
<!-- $ -->
&#35; BT 服务器连接间隔时间（秒）。默认：0 (自动)
&#35;bt-tracker-interval=0
<!-- $ -->
&#35; BT 下载优先下载文件开头或结尾
bt-prioritize-piece=head=32M,tail=32M
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 保存通过 WebUI(RPC) 上传的种子文件(.torrent)，默认:true
&#35; 所有涉及种子文件保存的选项都建议开启，不保存种子文件有任务丢失的风险。
&#35; 通过 RPC 自定义临时下载目录可能不会保存种子文件。
rpc-save-upload-metadata=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 下载种子文件(.torrent)自动开始下载, 默认:true，可选：false|mem
&#35; true：保存种子文件
&#35; false：仅下载种子文件
&#35; mem：将种子保存在内存中
follow-torrent=false
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 种子文件下载完后暂停任务，默认：false
&#35; 在开启 follow-torrent 选项后下载种子文件或磁力会自动开始下载任务进行下载，而同时开启当此选项后会建立相关任务并暂停。
pause-metadata=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 保存磁力链接元数据为种子文件(.torrent), 默认:false
bt-save-metadata=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 加载已保存的元数据文件(.torrent)，默认:false
bt-load-saved-metadata=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 删除 BT 下载任务中未选择文件，默认:false
bt-remove-unselected-file=false
<!-- $ -->
&#35; BT强制加密, 默认: false
&#35; 启用后将拒绝旧的 BT 握手协议并仅使用混淆握手及加密。可以解决部分运营商对 BT 下载的封锁，且有一定的防版权投诉与迅雷吸血效果。
&#35; 此选项相当于后面两个选项(bt-require-crypto=true, bt-min-crypto-level=arc4)的快捷开启方式，但不会修改这两个选项的值。
bt-force-encryption=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; BT加密需求，默认：false
&#35; 启用后拒绝与旧的 BitTorrent 握手协议(\19BitTorrent protocol)建立连接，始终使用混淆处理握手。
bt-require-crypto=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; BT最低加密等级，可选：plain（明文），arc4（加密），默认：plain
bt-min-crypto-level=arc4
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 分离仅做种任务，默认：false
&#35; 从正在下载的任务中排除已经下载完成且正在做种的任务，并开始等待列表中的下一个任务。
bt-detach-seed-only=true

<!-- $ -->
&#35;&#35; 客户端伪装 &#35;&#35;
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 自定义 User Agent
user-agent=Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/93.0.4577.63 Safari/537.36 Edg/93.0.961.47 aria2
<!-- $ -->
&#35; BT 客户端伪装
&#35; PT 下载需要保持 user-agent 和 peer-agent 两个参数一致
&#35; 部分 PT 站对 Aria2 有特殊封禁机制，客户端伪装不一定有效，且有封禁账号的风险。
&#35;user-agent=Deluge 1.3.15
peer-agent=Deluge 1.3.15
peer-id-prefix=-DE13F0-

<!-- $ -->
&#35;&#35; 执行额外命令 &#35;&#35;
<!-- $ -->
&#35;检查完整性
check-integrity=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 下载停止后执行的命令
&#35; 从 正在下载 到 删除、错误、完成 时触发。暂停被标记为未开始下载，故与此项无关。
&#35;on-download-stop=/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/aria2/delete.sh
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 下载完成后执行的命令
&#35; 此项未定义则执行 下载停止后执行的命令 (on-download-stop)
&#35;on-download-complete=/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/aria2/clean.sh
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 下载错误后执行的命令
&#35; 此项未定义则执行 下载停止后执行的命令 (on-download-stop)
&#35;on-download-error=
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 下载暂停后执行的命令
&#35;on-download-pause=
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 下载开始后执行的命令
&#35;on-download-start=
<!-- $ -->
&#35; BT 下载完成后执行的命令
&#35;on-bt-download-complete=

<!-- $ -->
&#35;&#35; RPC 设置 &#35;&#35;
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 启用 JSON-RPC/XML-RPC 服务器, 默认:false
enable-rpc=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 接受所有远程请求, 默认:false
rpc-allow-origin-all=false
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 允许外部访问, 默认:false
rpc-listen-all=false
<!-- $ -->
&#35; RPC 监听端口, 默认:6800
rpc-listen-port=6800
<!-- $ -->
&#35; RPC 密钥
rpc-secret=&lt;password&gt;
<!-- $ -->
&#35; RPC 最大请求大小
rpc-max-request-size=10M
<!-- $ -->
&#35; RPC 服务 SSL/TLS 加密, 默认：false
&#35; 启用加密后必须使用 https 或者 wss 协议连接
&#35; 不推荐开启，建议使用 web server 反向代理，比如 Nginx、Caddy ，灵活性更强。
&#35;rpc-secure=false
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 在 RPC 服务中启用 SSL/TLS 加密时的证书文件(.pem/.crt)
&#35;rpc-certificate=/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/aria2/xxx.pem
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 在 RPC 服务中启用 SSL/TLS 加密时的私钥文件(.key)
&#35;rpc-private-key=/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/aria2/xxx.key
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 事件轮询方式, 可选：epoll, kqueue, port, poll, select, 不同系统默认值不同
&#35;event-poll=select

<!-- $ -->
&#35;&#35; 高级选项 &#35;&#35;
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 启用异步 DNS 功能。默认：true
&#35;async-dns=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 指定异步 DNS 服务器列表，未指定则从 /etc/resolv.conf 中读取。
&#35;async-dns-server=119.29.29.29,223.5.5.5,8.8.8.8,1.1.1.1
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 指定单个网络接口，可能的值：接口，IP地址，主机名
&#35; 如果接口具有多个 IP 地址，则建议指定 IP 地址。
&#35; 已知指定网络接口会影响依赖本地 RPC 的连接的功能场景，即通过 localhost 和 127.0.0.1 无法与 Aria2 服务端进行讯通。
&#35;interface=
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 指定多个网络接口，多个值之间使用逗号(,)分隔。
&#35; 使用 interface 选项时会忽略此项。
&#35;multiple-interface=
<!-- $ -->
&#35; This option changes the way Download Results is formatted. 
&#35; If OPT is default, print GID, status, average download speed and path/URI. 
&#35; If multiple files are involved, path/URI of first requested file is printed and remaining ones are omitted. 
&#35; If OPT is full, print GID, status, average download speed, percentage of progress and path/URI. 
&#35; The percentage of progress and path/URI are printed for each requested file in each row. If OPT is hide, Download Results is hidden. 
&#35; Default: default
download-result=full
<!-- $ -->
&#35; Validate chunk of data by calculating checksum while downloading a file if chunk checksums are provided. 
&#35; Default: true
realtime-chunk-checksum=true

<!-- $ -->
&#35;&#35; 日志设置 &#35;&#35;
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 日志文件保存路径，忽略或设置为空为不保存，默认：不保存
log=/home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/aria2/aria2.log
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 日志级别，可选 debug, info, notice, warn, error 。默认：debug
log-level=warn
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 控制台日志级别，可选 debug, info, notice, warn, error ，默认：notice
console-log-level=notice
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 安静模式，禁止在控制台输出日志，默认：false
quiet=false
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 下载进度摘要输出间隔时间（秒），0 为禁止输出。默认：60
summary-interval=0

<!-- $ -->
&#35;&#35; 增强扩展设置(非官方) &#35;&#35;
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 仅适用于 myfreeer/aria2-build-msys2 (Windows) 和 P3TERX/Aria2-Pro-Core (GNU/Linux) 项目所构建的增强版本
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 在服务器返回 HTTP 400 Bad Request 时重试，仅当 retry-wait > 0 时有效，默认 false
&#35;retry-on-400=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 在服务器返回 HTTP 403 Forbidden 时重试，仅当 retry-wait > 0 时有效，默认 false
&#35;retry-on-403=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 在服务器返回 HTTP 406 Not Acceptable 时重试，仅当 retry-wait > 0 时有效，默认 false
&#35;retry-on-406=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 在服务器返回未知状态码时重试，仅当 retry-wait > 0 时有效，默认 false
&#35;retry-on-unknown=true
<!-- $ -->
&#35; 是否发送 Want-Digest HTTP 标头。默认：false (不发送)
&#35; 部分网站会把此标头作为特征来检测和屏蔽 Aria2
&#35;http-want-digest=false

<!-- $ -->
&#35;&#35; BitTorrent trackers &#35;&#35;
bt-tracker=
</code></pre></p>
</li>
</ul>
<hr></hr>
</details>

<!-- tracker.sh -->
<details>
<p><summary><strong>tracker.sh</strong></summary></p>
<p><code>$ vim /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/aria2/tracker.sh</code><font color="Red">&emsp;(new)&emsp;</font></p>
<p><pre lang="text"><code>
&#35;!/usr/bin/env bash
&#35;
&#35; https://github.com/P3TERX/aria2.conf
&#35; File name：tracker.sh
&#35; Description: Get BT trackers and add to Aria2
&#35; Version: 3.1
&#35;
&#35; Copyright (c) 2018-2021 P3TERX <https://p3terx.com>
&#35;
&#35; Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
&#35; of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
&#35; in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
&#35; to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
&#35; copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
&#35; furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
&#35;
&#35; The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
&#35; copies or substantial portions of the Software.
&#35;
&#35; THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
&#35; IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
&#35; FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
&#35; AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
&#35; LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
&#35; OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
&#35; SOFTWARE.
&#35;
&#35; BT tracker is provided by the following project.
&#35; https://github.com/XIU2/TrackersListCollection
&#35;
<!-- $ -->
RED_FONT_PREFIX="\033[31m"
GREEN_FONT_PREFIX="\033[32m"
YELLOW_FONT_PREFIX="\033[1;33m"
LIGHT_PURPLE_FONT_PREFIX="\033[1;35m"
FONT_COLOR_SUFFIX="\033[0m"
INFO="[${GREEN_FONT_PREFIX}INFO${FONT_COLOR_SUFFIX}]"
ERROR="[${RED_FONT_PREFIX}ERROR${FONT_COLOR_SUFFIX}]"
ARIA2_CONF=${1:-aria2.conf}
DOWNLOADER="curl -fsSL --connect-timeout 3 --max-time 3 --retry 2"
NL=$'\n'
<!-- $ -->
DATE_TIME() {
    date +"%m/%d %H:%M:%S"
}
<!-- $ -->
GET_TRACKERS() {
    if [[ -z "${CUSTOM_TRACKER_URL}" ]]; then
        echo && echo -e "$(DATE_TIME) ${INFO} Get BT trackers..."
        TRACKER=$(
            ${DOWNLOADER} https://ngosang.github.io/trackerslist/trackers_all.txt ||
                ${DOWNLOADER} https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/ngosang/tarckerslist/@master/trackers_best.txt ||
                ${DOWNLOADER} https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ngosang/trackerslist/master/trackers_best.txt
        )
    else
        echo && echo -e "$(DATE_TIME) ${INFO} Get BT trackers from url(s):${CUSTOM_TRACKER_URL} ..."
        URLS=$(echo ${CUSTOM_TRACKER_URL} | tr "," "$NL")
        for URL in $URLS; do
            TRACKER+="$(${DOWNLOADER} ${URL} | tr "," "\n")$NL"
        done
        TRACKER="$(echo "$TRACKER" | awk NF | sort -u | sed 'H;1h;$!d;x;y/\n/,/' )"
    fi
    [[ -z "${TRACKER}" ]] && {
        echo
        echo -e "$(DATE_TIME) ${ERROR} Unable to get trackers, network failure or invalid links." && exit 1
    }
}
<!-- $ -->
ECHO_TRACKERS() {
    echo -e "
--------------------[BitTorrent Trackers]--------------------
${TRACKER}
--------------------[BitTorrent Trackers]--------------------
"
}
<!-- $ -->
ADD_TRACKERS() {
    echo -e "$(DATE_TIME) ${INFO} Adding BT trackers to Aria2 configuration file ${LIGHT_PURPLE_FONT_PREFIX}${ARIA2_CONF}${FONT_COLOR_SUFFIX} ..." && echo
    if [ ! -f ${ARIA2_CONF} ]; then
        echo -e "$(DATE_TIME) ${ERROR} '${ARIA2_CONF}' does not exist."
        exit 1
    else
        [ -z $(grep "bt-tracker=" ${ARIA2_CONF}) ] && echo "bt-tracker=" >>${ARIA2_CONF}
        sed -i "s@^\(bt-tracker=\).*@\1${TRACKER}@" ${ARIA2_CONF} && echo -e "$(DATE_TIME) ${INFO} BT trackers successfully added to Aria2 configuration file !"
    fi
}
<!-- $ -->
ADD_TRACKERS_RPC() {
    if [[ "${RPC_SECRET}" ]]; then
        RPC_PAYLOAD='{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"aria2.changeGlobalOption","id":"user","params":["token:'${RPC_SECRET}'",{"bt-tracker":"'${TRACKER}'"}]}'
    else
        RPC_PAYLOAD='{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"aria2.changeGlobalOption","id":"user","params":[{"bt-tracker":"'${TRACKER}'"}]}'
    fi
    curl "${RPC_ADDRESS}" -fsSd "${RPC_PAYLOAD}" || curl "https://${RPC_ADDRESS}" -kfsSd "${RPC_PAYLOAD}"
}
<!-- $ -->
ADD_TRACKERS_RPC_STATUS() {
    RPC_RESULT=$(ADD_TRACKERS_RPC)
    [[ $(echo ${RPC_RESULT} | grep OK) ]] &&
        echo -e "$(DATE_TIME) ${INFO} BT trackers successfully added to Aria2 !" ||
        echo -e "$(DATE_TIME) ${ERROR} Network failure or Aria2 RPC interface error!"
}
<!-- $ -->
ADD_TRACKERS_REMOTE_RPC() {
    echo -e "$(DATE_TIME) ${INFO} Adding BT trackers to remote Aria2: ${LIGHT_PURPLE_FONT_PREFIX}${RPC_ADDRESS%/*}${FONT_COLOR_SUFFIX} ..." && echo
    ADD_TRACKERS_RPC_STATUS
}
<!-- $ -->
ADD_TRACKERS_LOCAL_RPC() {
    if [ ! -f ${ARIA2_CONF} ]; then
        echo -e "$(DATE_TIME) ${ERROR} '${ARIA2_CONF}' does not exist."
        exit 1
    else
        RPC_PORT=$(grep ^rpc-listen-port ${ARIA2_CONF} | cut -d= -f2-)
        RPC_SECRET=$(grep ^rpc-secret ${ARIA2_CONF} | cut -d= -f2-)
        [[ ${RPC_PORT} ]] || {
            echo -e "$(DATE_TIME) ${ERROR} Aria2 configuration file incomplete."
            exit 1
        }
        RPC_ADDRESS="localhost:${RPC_PORT}/jsonrpc"
        echo -e "$(DATE_TIME) ${INFO} Adding BT trackers to Aria2 ..." && echo
        ADD_TRACKERS_RPC_STATUS
    fi
}
<!-- $ -->
[ $(command -v curl) ] || {
    echo -e "$(DATE_TIME) ${ERROR} curl is not installed."
    exit 1
}
<!-- $ -->
if [ "$1" = "cat" ]; then
    GET_TRACKERS
    ECHO_TRACKERS
elif [ "$1" = "RPC" ]; then
    RPC_ADDRESS="$2/jsonrpc"
    RPC_SECRET="$3"
    GET_TRACKERS
    ECHO_TRACKERS
    ADD_TRACKERS_REMOTE_RPC
elif [ "$2" = "RPC" ]; then
    GET_TRACKERS
    ECHO_TRACKERS
    ADD_TRACKERS
    echo
    ADD_TRACKERS_LOCAL_RPC
else
    GET_TRACKERS
    ECHO_TRACKERS
    ADD_TRACKERS
fi
<!-- $ -->
exit 0

</code></pre></p>
<hr></hr>
</details>

<p></p>

<!-- AriaNg -->
<p><strong>AriaNg</strong></p>

<p>Form <a href="https://github.com/mayswind/ariang" title="ariang">AriaNg</a> download Releases

<!-- Creat bash script -->
<p><strong>Creat bash script</strong></p>

<p><code>$ vim /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/run/aria2start</code></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p>+<pre lang="text"><code>
&#35;!/bin/bash
&#35;update trackerslist and run aria2
<!-- $ -->
start_aria2="aria2c --conf-path=\"/home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/aria2/aria2.conf\""
<!-- $ -->
while true; do
    read -p "Update Tracker List? (Y/N): " answer
    case $answer in
        [Yy]* )
            echo -e "\n--------------------[Start Update]--------------------"
            bash "/home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/aria2/tracker.sh" "/home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/aria2/aria2.conf"
            eval $start_aria2
            break
            ;;
        [Nn]* )
            echo -e "\n--------------------[Cancel Update]--------------------"
            eval $start_aria2
            break
            ;;
        * )
            echo -e "Please Try Again\n"
            ;;
    esac
done

</code></pre></p>
</li>
</ul>

<p></p>

<!-- Creat other files -->
<p><strong>Creat other files</strong></p>

<p><code>$ vim /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/aria2.log</code><font color="Red">&emsp;(new)&emsp;</font></p>

<p><code>$ vim /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/aria.session</code><font color="Red">&emsp;(new)&emsp;</font></p>

<p><code>$ vim /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/dht.dat</code><font color="Red">&emsp;(new)&emsp;</font></p>

<p><code>$ vim /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/dht6.dat</code><font color="Red">&emsp;(new)&emsp;</font></p>

<p></p>

<p>The file tree will like:</p>

<p><pre lang ="text"><code>

.
├── aria2.conf
├── aria2.log
├── aria2.session
├── dht6.dat
├── dht.dat
├── index.html
├── run
│   └── aria2start
└── tracker.sh

</code></pre></p>

<p></p>

<!--Change PATH -->
<p><strong>Change PATH</strong></p>

<p><code>$ vim /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.bashrc</code></p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p>+<pre lang="text"><code></p>

<p>
&#35;user change
export PATH="/home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/aria2/run":$PATH
</p>

</code></pre>
</li>
</ul>

<p></p>

<p><strong>Run aria2</strong></p>

<p><code>$ aria2start</code></p>

<p></p>

<!-- Fontconfig -->
<h2 id=Fontconfig>Fontconfig</h2>

<p><code>$ vim /home/<font color="Red">&lt;cuntom name&gt;</font>/.config/fontconfig/fonts.conf</code>&emsp;<font color="Red">(new)</font>&emsp;</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>file change</p>
<p>+<pre lang="html"><code>
&lt;fontconfig&gt;
&lt;match&gt;
	&lt;test name="family"&gt;&lt;string&gt;sans-serif&lt;/string&gt;&lt;/test&gt;
	&lt;edit name="family" mode="prepend" binding="strong"&gt;
		&lt;string&gt;Mononoki Nerd Font&lt;/string&gt;
	&lt;/edit&gt;
&lt;/match&gt;
&lt;match&gt;
	&lt;test name="family"&gt;&lt;string&gt;serif&lt;/string&gt;&lt;/test&gt;
	&lt;edit name="family" mode="prepend" binding="strong"&gt;
		&lt;string&gt;Mononoki Nerd Font&lt;/string&gt;
	&lt;/edit&gt;
&lt;/match&gt;

&lt;match&gt;
	&lt;test name="family"&gt;&lt;string>monospace&lt;/string&gt;&lt;/test&gt;
	&lt;edit name="family" mode="prepend" binding="strong"&gt;
		&lt;string&gt;Mononoki Nerd Font Mono&lt;/string&gt;
    &lt;/edit&gt;
&lt;/match&gt;
&lt;/fontconfig&gt;

</p></code></pre>
</li>
</ul>

<p></p>

<!-- Link -->
<h2 id=Link>Link</h2>

<ul>
<p><a href="https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Advanced_Linux_Sound_Architecture" title="Advanced Linux Sound Architecture">Advanced Linux Sound Architecture</a></p>

<p><a href="https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Installation_guide" title="Installation guide">ArchLinux Installation guide</a></p>

<p><a href="https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Desktop_notifications" title="Desktop notifications">Desktop notifications</a></p>

<p><a href="https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/File_systems" title="File_systems">File systems</a></p>

<p><a href="https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Firewalld" title="Firewalld">Firewalld</a></p>

<p><a href="https://wiki.hyprland.org/" title="Hyprland">Hyprland</a></p>

<p><a href="https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Hyprland" title="archlinux_Hyprland">Hyprland-archwiki</a></p>

<p><a href="https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Media_Transfer_Protocol" title="Media_Transfer_Protocol">Media_Transfer_Protocol</a></p>

<p><a href="https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Pacman" title="Pacman">Pacman</a></p>

<p><a href="https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Steam" title="Steam">Steam</a></p>

<p><a href="https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Systemd" title="Systemd">Systemd</a></p>

</ul>



 
